# VS Codium Extension Installer

A small toolset to automate the installation of extensions in VS Codium using Python/Selenium and shell scripts.

By default, VS Codium can't search/install extensions from the official repository, which can be a little annoying, anyone who’s used it before knows it. There's a way to configure this behaviour which I will link later here, but I didn't think it was that good so I created this script to automate the whole process.

Since the only input is a text file with all the URLs of the extensions you want to install, it can also be useful if you want to install a list of your favorite extensions automatically.

## About

This project consists of:

* **codiumExtensionInstaller.py**: A Python script using Selenium to fetch the latest version of each extension from the Marketplace, generate `publisher.extension.version` strings, and delegate installation to `extensionInstaller.sh`.
* **extensionInstaller.sh**: A Bash script that installs a single extension into Codium given its identifier (`publisher.extension.version`) and platform number.

You could do everything in Python, but this started as a bash-based solution and the Selenium idea was considered later. Maybe this will make it easier in the future to make the script multi-platform.

## Prerequisites

* **Operating System**: Linux, adding Windows support in the future (MAYBE)
* **Firefox**: I'll add an option if you just use Chrome in the future, i'm lazy :p
* **Python**: This script was made in version 3.13.3
* **Geckodriver**: Download from [Mozilla GeckoDriver releases](https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases) and place the executable in the `driver/` folder.

## Setup

1. Clone this repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/JustineTorres4/VScodiumExtensionInstaller.git
   cd VScodiumExtensionInstaller
   ```

2. Make scripts executable:

   ```bash
   chmod +x initial_config.sh extensionInstaller.sh
   ```

3. Run initial configuration to install Python packages and create folders:

   ```bash
   ./initial_config.sh
   ```

4. Download [Geckodriver](https://github.com/mozilla/geckodriver/releases):

   ```bash
   cd driver
   wget [download-URL-linux64.tar.gz]
   tar -xvzf [geckodriver-linux64.tar.gz]
   ```

## Usage

1. Prepare a text file (e.g. `urls.txt`) listing one VS Codium Marketplace URL per line:

   ```text
   https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-python.python
   https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=esbenp.prettier-vscode
   ```

2. Run the Python script to extract extension identifiers and install them:

   ```bash
   python codiumExtensionInstaller.py urls.txt
   ```

3. When prompted, select your target platform (e.g., `5` for Linux x64).

4. The script will:

   * Fetch each URL and extract the `publisher.extension.version` string.
   * Invoke `extensionInstaller.sh` for each extension, passing the optional* platform argument.
   * \* some extensions require a platform parameter, and others don't. Since I couldn't find a way to see if the extension needs it or not, the script downloads it first with the parameter, if it doesn't work, it tries without it.

## Files

* **urls.txt**: Put your extensions URLs here!!! The only file you need to edit, browse for extensions [here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/vscode). It doesn't need to be named like this, since you will use the file as parameter when executing the python script.
* **initial_config.sh**: Installs Python dependencies (`selenium`, `webdriver-manager`) into `lib/` and creates `driver/` directory. (It does NOT install geckodriver).
* **codiumExtensionInstaller.py**: Main script (needs `selenium`, `webdriver-manager` or Geckodriver).
* **extensionInstaller.sh**: Installs a single extension into VS Codium.
* **extensions.txt**: Generated by the Python script; lists all `<publisher>.<extension>.<version>` entries.

## Troubleshooting

* **API request limit error**: That means you're letting `webdriver-manager` manage the webdriver download, but that can is prone to be blocked by the Github download API that the manager uses. I recommend downloading the driver yourself like showed above, ensure the executable is in `driver/`.
* **Permission errors**: Make sure `extensionInstaller.sh` is executable (`chmod +x extensionInstaller.sh`).
* **Extensions folder**: I'll change this later, but so far this script downloads the extensions into your home directory under the hidden folder `~/.codium_extensions/`. It's a good idea to delete them later while the script still doesn't do it.

## Future ideas

   * Extend its use to Windows as well, my plan is making another script in PowerShell for Windows installation that the python script will choose based on the platform option. (change extensionInstaller.sh to linuxInstaller.sh)
   * Considering that it can also be useful for automating the installation of a list of scripts, I'll also make it work on VS Code as well. (It's just one line of code to change this)
   * GUI to make it easier to use, even tho I think just editing a txt file and running a single CLI command is simple enough, implementing a GUI is really simple, specially in Python.
   * Feel free to modify this project however you want, throughout this document I've mentioned several possible (and necessary) improvements that could be made to these scripts. This is also an educational project: by splitting it into two different scripting approaches, I gave myself more opportunities to solve problems using two different technologies. :D

## Final considerations

After finishing this, I decided I'll install LunarVim

## License

MIT © Justine Torres
